The time should not be taken at face value, as for many of the training runs, we ran multiple runs simultaneously. It is realistic to expect here around a 6.5x speedup (i.e. WGAN takes 6.5x longer than diffusion) as a baseline estimate (WGAN has 2 neural networks to train, and here we use n_critic = 5 which seems to perform much better than n_critic = 1). In other words, for each minibatch, WGAN does 6 gradient steps compared to diffusion's single step (the critic steps also require heavier computation due to the critic penalty, thus the 6.5x instead of 6x factor). 

In an earlier version of the experiment, we did not use EMA for diffusion. We have removed those results and swapped to the EMA version instead. Interestingly, this causes a few bad outlier seeds for M1 x-dim = 100; the interested reader can check the version history for the previous diffusion runs. With EMA added, diffusion beats WGAN on every experiment and metric (except x-dim 100 on estimating sd and 0.05,0.95 quantiles, and m2 median). It is also interesting to note that the gap between WGAN and diffusion significantly widens at x-dim = 100 vs x-dim = 5 (though it is unclear whether the gap would persist given architectural improvement). Actually, the x-dim = 100 case is extremely contrived, as one would always choose a bottlenecked embedding in such a scenario instead of concatenation mlp.

Finally, we point out that outliers for M1 is very much expected (look at the ground truth).

**Update: After fixing the implementation (we had weird things going on with the gradient penalty and generator loss), and changing n_critic = 1 (to be faithful to the WGR paper's implementation), we obtain significantly worse results for WGAN (in both 0 and 0.1 settings). Interestingly, in the updated runs, 0.1 now looks clearly superior to 0, whereas this was questionable before. (As a result, diffusion now looks even better! Though it was already clearly better before hand anyways). All runs are done with default settings in parse.py.

We believe the significantly worse performance is due to choosing n_critic = 1 instead of 5, and  is unrelated to the old (weird) implementation somehow being better. In any case, we would like to point out that trying to optimize WGAN is not worth the effort when diffusion exists.

In any case, we invite the reader to look at the previous trials using GitHub version history. Here, we are just following whatever implementation the WGR paper said they did. 